---
layout: post
current: post
cover: assets/images/colorwall.jpg
navigation: True
title: Welcome
date: 2018-09-08 10:00:00
tags: products
class: post-template
author: rooshi
---
# G-Arch, Gmail Archiver

-----------------------



## Introduction

During the summer of 2017, I was led away from the usual hum-drum of video games and picking up shifts at Candy World. I was given the opportunity of working in a field I had never thought I would have the opportunity to, and the insights I gained into this new venture were priceless. I worked closely with the Lead Architect of PRP ARQ Inc. over the course of the summer and he confided in me, a few frustrations he had with everyone's favorite e-mail service Gmail. Because of all of the files and emails sent back and forth between him and his "electric people" and "construction people" and others, his Outlook had slowed to a crawl and it was a pain to keep things organized. He said he wanted just to store some emails onto his hard drive because he would rarely need to use them again and then delete them from Outlook and Gmail. 

With my software skills, I offered to create a desktop app where he could store the emails onto a local hard drive which he keeps with him at all times, and since he's not the most technologically savvy guy, I mocked up a clean, easy-to-use UI and voilà G-Arch was born!

## The Process

When starting the project, I had no idea if it was even possible to save Gmail emails at all, or even if the Outlook inbox would even clean up. I spent almost 2 weeks doing research into if I should've have saved and deleted the emails directly from Outlook or even if Gmail REST APIs would allow saving emails. Apparently, there is no way at all to interact with Outlook directly so that plan was over. I had to do things from Google's side but the available documentation from Google regarding Gmail and saving emails and ESPECIALLY OAuth 2.0 for Java was scarce, but nonetheless it was a challenge I had to take on.

I started creating small services that did each part like authentication in one and downloading in another and saving in another and then tested each part with a test Gmail account 

## The Outcome!

- Allows multiple users and different preferences for each user
- Saved preferences locally per each user and adjustable after initial setup
- 

## Not to flex but... (aka the attention to details)



I realized early on that when switching the order of plugged in drives, it switches around the drive letters (like from E: to F: if it's plugged in after another drive) and this actually changes the way that Java interprets that drive. So to make sure that the same drive was used when returning to the application, I created a few functions that would check for the name of the drives that are plugged in find the correct one before saving emails to make sure they save in the proper place.

## What I would've changed

I definitely did not figure out the purpose of Maven and Gradle by the time I was writing this program and now the most embarrassing part of having my code public on [github](https://github.com/rooshimadethis/Email-Sorter/tree/master/APIs) is that I actually have the downloaded jar files as a folder in the project called APIs.
