---

layout: post
current: post
cover: assets/images/mb/three.jpg
navigation: True
title: MB 3
date: 2020-12-11 22:52:00
tags: microblog
class: post-template
author: rooshi
comments: true
---
# Microblog #3: Comments!
### By Rooshi Patidar

<br>

12/11/2020 10:52 pm

<br>
Here it is. The greatest contribution to free speech that I could offer from my desk at this moment. I made a neat comment section for this blog.

<br>

I'm using a pretty rad service called [Staticman](https://staticman.net/) (made by the genius [Eduardo Bouças](https://eduardoboucas.com/) and [Erlen Masson](http://erlen.co.uk/)). Since my site is static, every change I make to content needs to rebuilt and uploaded back to GitHub. I could use a third-party service, but I want to embed the least amount possible for privacy, stability, and control reasons. I now host an endpoint of Staticman on the free-tier of Heroku and when clicking "Submit" on a new comment on my site, it sends the form's contents to that endpoint and creates a pull request on my website repo with that data. I can read over the comment and make sure it complies to my acceptable use policy (common sense I guess?), build it, and publish it. It takes a few extra steps than just embedding something, but there are some perks like not having more tracking cookies all over the site for users, and the ability to keep whatever visual design I want. Also, it guarantees I read each and every comment because I would have to for them to post 😊.

<br>

I very much appreciate the value of free speech and will do my best to keep this blog as open as possible for visitors. I want to hear opposing opinions and constructive conversations, but if I need to change dirty words here and there from usernames I will. Markdown formatting will work on comments and I'll leave it in too if it's not annoying or spammy. Trolling comments will of course not be published. I will try not to censor speech that I disagree with including possibly hate speech if it put forward in a respectful way and on-topic. I read "Rising Out of Hatred" by Eli Saslow earlier this year and I believe a conversation can do a lot that fighting and censorship can't. If you want to see what I've denied on this site (along with some test comments probably), you can check out the closed, but not merged, pull requests [here](https://github.com/rooshimadethis/me/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed).

<br>

I'm super pumped for this! I've been thinking about it ever since I started my blog back when I was a little child in 2017. It's not the most scalable option, but I'm expecting like 1 visitor a month and just hoping it's not a bot. If you are not a bot (hell even if you are, I'd be impressed if you tricked the captcha), say something nice below! And PLEASE wait the 5 or 10 seconds it might take to submit, I'm sorry about that I'll look for optimizations.

<br>
<br>

 \- I'm grateful for more friends than I expected.

<br>

Cover photo: [Roman Forum](https://www.planetware.com/rome/roman-forum-i-la-rfr.htm)

<br>