---

layout: post
current: post
cover: assets/images/mb/one.jpg
navigation: True
title: What's the point?
date: 2020-11-29 19:29:00
tags: microblog
class: post-template
author: rooshi
comments: true
---
# Microblog #1: What's the point?
### By Rooshi Patidar

<br>

11/29/2020 7:29 pm

<br>I'm doing my final project right now for MKT 360 Information and Analysis. It's about students' use of social media and the kinds of effects it has like inducing FOMO, distraction while studying, and outright addiction. It got me thinking: imagine spending 2 hours a day on Instagram, 1 on Twitter, and maybe a half hour on Facebook. That a solid 3.5 hours a day looking at your phone on some type of passive social media. It seems like a lot but that's just a few bathroom breaks, scrolling for a bit in bed, and going on while you're supposed to be studying or working or exercising. Those 3.5 hours a day become an ludicrous 1277.5 hours a year of literally just scrolling apathetically through pictures and content. Let's say you use social media for 60 years from 14 years old to maybe 74 (stopping right before virtual reality is plugged straight to the brain in your retirement home). That's 8.75 YEARS of those 60, that you spent just looking at this tiny screen in your palm where the content either is an ad for a shitty or fake product or a picture from someone you talked to a handful of times making you feel bad because they are wildly successful. Can you name me one concrete benefit you have received from social media that you could not get from just texting or calling someone? Is it really worth giving up 8.75 years of your life for that?

<br>

Please email me your thoughts, we can have a conversation, and maybe I can post a condensed version of it on here.

<br>

In an effort to end on a high note, I'm gonna end each entry with at least one thing I'm grateful for :).
 \- I'm grateful for the better than expected progress on my school projects (which is allowing me to take a break and write this post instead 😊)

<br>

Picture credit: PT by 7780s Studio. The never ending hallway.

<br>