---

layout: post
current: post
cover: assets/images/mb/four.png
navigation: True
title: A Side Effect of the Information Age
date: 2021-01-04 16:39:00
tags: microblog
class: post-template
author: rooshi
comments: true
---
# Microblog #4: A Side Effect of the Information Age
### By Rooshi Patidar

<br>

01/04/2021 4:39 pm

<br>
It could be said that I was born from a human, but raised by the internet. I've spent time with my family, but since the age of 13, when I got my first computer, I have most likely spent more time at home on the internet than I did talking to my family. I'm kinda being dramatic, but I'm sure many people can relate to this situation. But my love for solitude is not the point. I want to talk about the vast information blob that is the internet.

<br>

The internet would be a completely different place if it was easy to view content but not post. Sites like YouTube, Tumblr, Twitter, and Instagram give power to individuals to post their own content while the development of increasingly cheaper gadgets with cameras, microphones, and processors has put a mobile workstation into everyone's hands. It's just so easy to find so much new and niche content, perfectly tailored for you, for absolutely free. That's why it boggles my mind why I would ever pay for a book.

<br>

If you've seen my other posts, you would know that I enjoy reading to a good degree. I know the authors of novels put hours a day and years of their lives into these pieces of literature. But why would I ever walk into a bookstore and risk buying an unenjoyable book for $15? It's a little bit about the money, but it's more about the principle. With so much free content mediums out there, from video blogs to fanfiction, all with some way of sorting by most popular, I see no reason to take a risk. 

<br>

I can tell this is mostly because of the way the first internet companies chose to monetize their content. There's only a short and ignorable advertisement between you and a video that's potentially more entertaining than a blockbuster film with popcorn and soda. The sunk cost of a bad YouTube video is just the 15 seconds. I see no way forward for these huge productions with high entry fees for consumption. These entertainment industries need to find a way to get us out of the house and do things that we couldn't at home. 

<br>

Lucky for them, it's only a matter of time before we get sick of looking at screens for 14 hours a day. Personally, I'm getting sickly tired of switching between the small screen in my hand to the large screen on my desk to the tiny screen on my wrist. The new entertainment economy needs to reconnect us with the physical world with engrossing experiences. I'm hoping we move farther away from things that could be done virtually like movie theaters or e-sports and instead participate in something different like obstacle courses or extreme game shows. We need more themed carnivals and live action roleplay. Anything to get out of the house and get an experience that can't be relived vicariously through a screen. I want to make my own memories.

<br>

___



This post is my first attempt at trying to create a little bit of low-grade literature every week. Writing skills are pretty valuable in any situation from work-related documents to gathering your thoughts, so I thought I would start setting a strict schedule of at least one post a week by Sunday night\*. I've been struggling with recall when it comes to writing. Not really in cases of subject matter but especially in terms of vocabulary. I end up googling "XXX synonym" at the rate of 0.8 times per sentence written and it has put a serious damper on my flow and output. I realize though that reading and writing are completely different beasts and each need to be tamed separately. Consuming is much different than recalling and being an expert in one can only get you so far in the other. The good thing, though, is that every single thing we do is a learned skill and you can get better at *anything* by practicing so this weekly posting is my proposed solution.

<br>

*already failed this week innit?

<br>

<br>

 \- I'm grateful for positive energy

<br>

Cover photo: [From the Daily Illini](https://dailyillini.com/opinions/columns-opinions/2018/11/27/social-media-issues/). Slightly modified.

<br>