---

layout: post
current: post
cover: assets/images/mb/six.png
navigation: True
title: The Quickening
date: 2021-01-17 17:24:00
tags: microblog
class: post-template
author: rooshi
comments: true
---
# Microblog #6: The Quickening
### By Rooshi Patidar
<br>

01/17/2021 5:25 pm

<br>

I can't tell if it's always been like this, but aging seems to be fast. Too fast. Not even in terms of how old you are, but how great you're expected to be at something. Unless we're talking about playing sports, it seems almost 100% likely that you will be the best at what you do in your 40s or 50s. After 2 or 3 decades or work, you'll wield an awesome level of skills and work ethic to make you the best in your field. But I have a really hard time accepting that.

<br>

When you go to Facebook, Reddit, or TikTok, you'll see these kids and teens with so much talent in anything from dancing or programming or even [helping develop a COVID vaccine](https://www.cnn.com/2020/10/18/us/anika-chebrolu-covid-treatment-award-scn-trnd/index.html). The age to be world-class at something seems to be earlier and earlier and its stressing me (and I'm sure many others) out. To be honest, I feel like I am pretty good in a general skills-based sense of the word. I have a strong curiosity and am quite good at teaching myself about any interest that seems to catch my eye. I have learned about so many topics including weightlifting, skin care, music production, photography, psychology, programming, blogging, motorcycles, consumer technology, and self-help and I put many of those skills into use daily. I make sure to check my sources and spend hours, whether I want to or not, working on or learning any one of those topics listed above. But obviously that's not good enough. I'm one of the 90% of people in the world that don't have or haven't found their "calling" so my effort is so split between those 10 random things. And my "legacy", for a lack of a better word, seems bleak.

<br>

I get jealous of so many of my musician heroes who made it big by my age (and even earlier. One of my favorite musical artists Juice WRLD was born 10 months after me, lived an entire rockstar life, and died when we were both 21). I have read so many Wikipedia articles and try to line up their milestones age with mine, but make myself feel terrible instead. I don't even want to be famous, I just want to be so good at something that it can't be denied. But it seems impossible when everything I do doesn't seem to be the thing for me. That hasn't led me to a life of absolute sloth, though. I'm here writing this, aren't I? I just set myself goals and deadlines like one blog post a week, 30 minutes of exercise a day, and at least 5 minutes of music production a day (which usually ends up being longer). I'm not giving up, but it's tough out here.

<br>

I watched *Soul* by Pixar and its symbolic perspective of life harmonized with some of my own thoughts. I want to believe that there is a spark for myself. Something that once I start, there's nothing else I want but to spend my time on it. The closest thing I've found so far is music production. I enjoy it and don't mind spending a couple hours a day on it after, of course, school and exercise and interview prep for software engineering positions. I know I will get good one day, but it's hard to stay encouraged when you're watching complex tutorials by kids in high school.

<br>

Catch me on tour in 5 years

<br>

<br>

Edit: 01/17/2021 9:11PM

[I just found someone with the same issue I'm dealing with](https://www.reddit.com/r/WeAreTheMusicMakers/comments/kzedrw/feeling_overwhelmingly_jealous_after_taking_a/). He's a 21 year old that feels like it's too late to start making music and struggles with the same jealousy. 

<br>

 \- I'm grateful for good change and any movement towards achieving your goals.

<br>